[AUDIO LOGO]
[THEME MUSIC]
>>REGINA MEREDITH: Some of
the true beauty of these times
is that we're being reintroduced
to the old, more connected ways
of being with the elemental
kingdom, gods, and guides.
Most cultures around
the world have
a tradition of interacting
with elementals amongst them.
But Christianity drove
this underground.
Kaedrich Olsen is
back with us today
to talk about the Norse
pantheon of spirits
that are here with us now in
these times and in the past.
Good to see you again, Kaedrich.
KAEDRICH OLSEN: Hey, hey.
It's great to be here again.
Thank you.
>>REGINA: Well, I would like
to start a little bit where
we did before because you were
raised in a haunted house.
And you were raised
with a mother that
encouraged you to go
into training, to develop
your skills in the world of
esotericism and paranormal
goings-on around you.
So tell us a little
bit about that
and how that bridges over
to talking about Norse gods
and guides and elementals.
>>OLSEN: Absolutely.
Yeah, definitely born
into a haunted house.
I like to say I was literally
born into a paranormal life
because my doc--
my mom's doctor,
when she was pregnant with
me, was Doctor Robert Bradley,
who invented the Bradley
method, who was the subject
of the movie--
part of the subject of the
movie, "The Changeling."
So I literally
grew up with this.
I grew up going to a
spiritualist church.
I knew how to communicate
with spirits as a child.
It was a normal part
of life for me--
watching TV channels
change while you're
watching it, radios turn
on, hearing footsteps
in the hallway.
And yeah, it was a little
spooky because there
were horror movies out there.
And I watched horror movies.
I always loved horror movies.
But it was a little spooky.
However, my experiences
never matched
what was going on in
the horror movies.
So it was confusing
a little bit.
But with all of that
aside, my mom still
got me into psychic training.
She took me to the
classes and the seances
at the spiritualist church.
And so I got to see that
this paranormal side is not
so unusual.
It's pretty normal.
I got to understand that the
supernatural is completely
a natural part of our world.
So it was normal, natural for
me to be around this stuff.
It was a little odd to me
that the other kids in school
and other parents were a
little freaked out by it
and bothered by it because
it was so unusual to them
when I'm like,
don't you see it's
a natural part of our world?
>>REGINA: Right, right.
>>OLSEN: And so I needed
to understand better what
was going on all around me.
And my parents had a literal
library of books available.
>>REGINA: Lucky you.
I mean, I'm so envious
of your upbringing.
>>OLSEN: Yeah, it was great.
I read secret teachings of
all ages, at a young age.
Oh, yeah.
>>REGINA: You were a kid.
Yeah.
>>OLSEN: It was beautiful.
And I remember reading about the
brotherhood of Odin in there.
At the same time, I was
looking at tarot cards
and different things.
And I got my first set of runes.
And I'm like, what is this?
And I dove into the
runes and studied those.
And I was like, OK, where
does this culture come from?
What is this all about?
And I started
reading the poetry.
I started reading the sagas.
I read every book I
could get a hold of.
I'm like, wow, this
is fascinating.
And what really struck
me over the years
of working with the Norse
and the Norse mysticism
is that they, too,
shared the view
that the supernatural,
the paranormal,
was a natural part of our world.
They lived alongside
land spirits.
house spirits
and other sorts of human spirits
and all sorts of entities.
And it was a natural,
normal part of their world.
It wasn't separate.
It wasn't individual.
It was nothing that
they were afraid of.
It was like, oh, hey,
there's my neighbors here.
Let's share with them.
Let's invite them here.
Yule came around.
And they would open
their house to spirits
of all kinds at Yule time.
It wasn't just for friends
and family to come over.
It was for the spirits
>>REGINA: For all
the elementals,
for the elves and dwarves
and whoever else was coming
by for a little nip of grog.
>>OLSEN: Exactly.
And so that shaped my worldview
is, the Norse perspective of it
and my own
perspective and seeing
how they intermeshed real well.
And I'm like, yeah, this
completely makes sense.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
OK.
So I'm going to go
back a little bit.
You were talking about
when you were a little kid.
You were watching these
supernatural films and horror
films and so forth.
And it wasn't matching
up with your reality.
So for people who
watch these things
and are thinking, oh,
what wasn't lining up?
What was so off
for you in those?
>>OLSEN: When you
see a horror movie
or any supernatural
movie-- let's say,
it's not a horror
movie, it's just
a benevolent supernatural movie.
>>REGINA: Not scary.
>>OLSEN: Yeah.
You were expecting
thumping on the walls.
You're expecting a
voice saying, get out.
You're expecting
something to fly
across the room or something
very overt, very obvious.
That's not quite how it is.
Sure, there will
be some tapping.
be some movement.
If you have house spirits, they
will hide little shiny things
on you.
You look for your
keys, where are they?
It's the house spirits
messing with you.
It's fun.
But paranormal experiences
are very, very subtle.
It's more like, you want
to connect with a guide.
You want to talk to a teacher.
And a lot of people expect
it to be a great gestalt,
like us sitting here
talking back and forth.
And when you reach out
to a guide, and say,
hey, can you give
me some clarity,
can you give me some
direction where I need to go,
and you feel like you're
getting dead silence.
But yet, there's
this urge inside.
It's like, I'm curious, what
is this thing I was thinking
about the other day?
Let's go explore
numerology, for example.
I don't know why.
Where?
Is this interest in numerology
And then you dig into it.
And you go, oh, that
was the answer I
was looking for the other day.
So it's not overt and direct.
>>REGINA: It might be giving
you a whisper towards something.
>>OLSEN: Exactly.
That's why I call my
guides the whisperers.
>>REGINA: Yeah, I do too.
They're always whispering,
inviting us forward.
>>OLSEN: Exactly.
So that's where you look
for the silence within.
You try to cultivate
that silence
within because that's where
you hear that subtle whispers.
And fascinatingly
enough, in Norse lore,
there's a poem
called the "H치vam치l,"
the teachings of Odin, the
sayings of the High One.
And he says, literally in there,
I believe it stands at 80,
that when you come to the
[NON-ENGLISH] and the high holy
gods to ask of the runes,
the universal mysteries,
it's best for one to be silent
because that's how you can hear
the whispers of the runes.
>>REGINA: Very wise.
And the thing is,
this really feeds
into the notion of desire.
We have a subtle desire body.
It's here to propel
us forward, to help
us engage in whatever it
is we need to engage in.
And to me, that's all about,
is to help create a curiosity
or desire to move into something
we need to engage with.
And you can't discover that
voice if you're not silent.
I mean, you can.
I've interviewed a lot of people
that have been hit by a car,
struck by lightning, died
in all kinds of ways,
only to find on the
other side, yeah,
you need be quiet and
pay attention next time.
So we don't have
to do this to you.
So we can short circuit all that
by actually paying attention
for that whisper.
And like you said, you
suddenly, hmm, numerology, I
need to know more.
And that's how my guides
and my soul works with me.
I just get curious.
And I've got to
pull that thread.
>>OLSEN: Exactly.
It's like nudges.
It's urges.
It's a little bit
of inspiration.
It's never like this
great overt answer.
It's just a subtle,
little touch.
>>REGINA: Yes.
And it's interesting
that the beings
that I'm a soul group part of,
when they talk to other people,
and people say, I don't know my
life's purpose and blah, blah,
blah, blah, blah, I just don't
know what I'm doing here,
what am I supposed
to be doing, which
I find an interesting
question, anyway,
they always say, what
would you like to do.
They always ask, what
And it puts it
back on the person.
And it's not long
before they start
getting thumped with a message
about, hmm, I wonder about--
I always wanted to be a DJ.
I did that in college.
And boom, they start a
new career or whatever.
>>OLSEN: There's a Norse
concept called orlog.
Some people pronounce it orlog.
Orlog, it's basically
the primal law.
But it's the reason
why you're here.
It's your will with
a capital W. It's
the purpose for being here.
And when people ask me what
that is, of course, I'm
not going to give them an
answer because I tell them,
if I tell people, I give
you an answer, I'm wrong.
But if I give you the means
to ask better questions,
that's the path to go.
So I tell them to
ask three questions.
What do you love doing?
What can you do all
day long and just get
super charged about it?
What do you have a
natural talent for?
Just like, what are you
skilled at naturally?
And third, what
does the world need?
Because your view of what--
>>REGINA: Those are the
three best questions.
You are absolutely right on.
What makes time
stand still for you?
>>OLSEN: And that's how
you discover your orlog.
>>REGINA: What are you good at?
What do you have
natural talent in?
What does the world
need right now?
So there you go.
For everybody watching this,
I think we need to ask.
If you don't know the answer
to what you're here for,
ask yourself those
three questions.
So meanwhile, we're going
to move on to a recent trip
when you went to
Norway very recently.
And you had some experiences.
Here, I've written them down.
So let's talk about some
dwarves that you encountered.
>>OLSEN: Absolutely.
>>REGINA: In the white cave.
>>OLSEN: Yep.
How I got to be there
was, I was invited
to be a teacher, an
expert, as part of a group
called Awaken the Viking,
whereas about 20 people
gathered in Gudvangen,
Norway, where
there is a Viking village.
There is the Fjord Hotel.
It's very rural.
It's situated between two
walls of mountains on a fjord.
It's very epic.
It's beautiful.
And as part of this group,
we went to the white caves.
And it's beautiful caves inside,
just white stone everywhere.
I can't remember the name
of the stone, that is.
But we were invited to go
there and just meditate.
And we found a place to
sit down, to lay down.
There was water
dripping everywhere.
Otherwise, it's
completely silent.
Candlelight everywhere, so
it's just beautiful there.
And so I lay down.
And I tried to close my
eyes, but I couldn't.
I tried to meditate,
and I couldn't.
And I'm like, what's
going on here?
Why can't I close my eyes?
And so I reached out to see if I
could feel energies or entities
because this place is full
of all sorts of beings.
And so I reached out.
I'm like, who's here?
What are we doing?
And suddenly, I'm
remembering another line out
of the H치vam치l, when
Odin discovers the runes.
And he gave some to the gods,
he gave some to the giants, some
to the elves, some he
gave to the dwarves.
And I went, OK,
guys, if you're here,
and you're connecting
with me, give me
your concept of what your
understanding of runes are,
what are dwarf runes like.
And so they told me about rubble
piles or when stones move.
And one of the--
>>REGINA: You mean, as in like
tea leaves, how they land.
>>OLSEN: Yeah.
Like when stones move and
how they work with that.
And remember, runes are like
universal mysteries, not
necessarily divination tools.
And so what I put my
hand on a little pebble,
and I'm like, great, what is a
pebble to you in runic terms?
And they said, that's old age.
And I'm like, what
do you mean old age?
And then they showed me when
it starts with a big boulder,
and then it wears down
over the centuries.
And it becomes these
little tiny pebbles.
And I went, oh, I get it.
And so they were showing me
runes and universal concepts,
universal mysteries, from the
point of view of centuries
of stones lives, how stones
moves, how they connect,
how they rub against each
other when air passes through
and water passes through
and what that's all like.
And I'm, like, how
very interesting.
>>REGINA: That's fascinating.
So not the runes
we know that you
read, which are the ones that
have little symbols written
on them.
And you put your hand in
a bag, and you draw one,
and it has its own meaning.
This is the movement
and the placement
and the size and interaction
of stone with its surrounding
environment.
>>OLSEN: Right.
>>REGINA: Fascinating.
>>OLSEN: And here's a
great opportunity for us
to explore a different
take on runes.
Most of us are used to
seeing runes exactly
as you say, a little
letter, a little character,
on a piece of stone or wood.
That is a stave.
That's just a visual mnemonic.
The actual rune is the
universal form sources,
the universal energies that
run through everything,
such as Fehu is about value,
Urus is about strength,
Thurizas is about
aggression, Ansuz
is about awareness and wisdom.
Those are universal forces
that you don't need the staves.
You don't need the
names or the words
that we can
understand as energies
that run through everything.
They're involved everywhere.
Like the Urus of this
table, its ability
to be stable and
strong, my Uru is
my strengths, both physical and
emotional, mental strengths.
That's Urus.
And so when the dwarves are
telling me about the runes,
they were understanding
these little forces
from their points of view.
>>REGINA: Interesting.
But do you still do the
runes in terms of divination
when you're working
with clients and people?
>>OLSEN: Sometimes, absolutely.
>>REGINA: Sometimes.
Yeah, just to see what the force
is that wants to come through.
>>OLSEN: Exactly.
Because it gives little
insights to what's going on.
Plus it taps into the
[NON-ENGLIS] the [NON-ENGLISH]
or log on the [NON-ENGLISH] So
it helps me understand those
causal forces.
>>REGINA: Yes.
OK.
Now we had two more experiences.
I love these.
These are all juicy.
I love paranormal.
It's not even paranormal.
I love normal, supernatural
that's natural.
OK.
So we have an instance
of a giant that
was sleeping in the mountain.
>>OLSEN: Right.
There are many, many,
many tales, folklore,
and in the "Eddas,"
that trolls and giants,
they roam the night.
They're all out at night.
Or they're in the caves.
They're deep in the underground.
And if they're ever exposed to
sunlight, they turn to stone.
>>REGINA: Oh, interesting.
>>OLSEN: And there
are standing stones,
there are monuments all over
the place, where people say,
yes, this is where the
giants turned into stone.
And of course, as
an American who
had not been in Scandinavia at
all, I'm reading these stories.
And I have to tell you,
even though I grew up
as a paranormal life, I grew up
surrounded by all this stuff,
I'm always a skeptic.
Somebody tells me something's
in the house flickering
the lights, I say, OK, great,
let's go check the electrician.
They're hearing something in the
plumbing in the walls, great.
Let's go check a plumber first.
Same way here.
I'm like, OK, these are great.
>>REGINA: You're right.
It's very analytical.
Yes.
>>OLSEN: These
are great stories.
They're trying to explain
their natural world.
They're trying to have
a good understanding
of their natural world.
No.
When I got to Norway,
and I saw these things,
these are very real.
These are not
mythological metaphor.
Right.
These are very real things.
And so when I'm at the hotel,
I'm looking across the fjord,
and I see a giant's face on the
side of a mountain in stone,
looks like he's sleeping with
a happy look on his face.
And I went, oh, I get it.
These stories are real.
It's very real.
>>REGINA: And was there a
lore that supported that?
>>OLSEN: Yes.
From what I understand,
that is a giant
that is a protector
of that region
and helps protect the people,
helps protect everything.
Because remember, these
are two giant walls
of mountain with a fjord,
so there are rockslides
constantly.
>>REGINA: Yes So
they're warning.
And it sounds like they
connect with another species
that you encountered that
helped warn of a rockslide.
>>OLSEN: That's right.
One of the nights, I was
going back to my room,
and I was really
tired because it's
a lot of stuff we were
doing there as part
of this event, a lot of stuff.
But I was tired.
And of course, rockslides are
happening all over the place.
But I'm seeing these two ravens.
And two ravens are
going to stick out
to me because Odin
has two ravens, Huginn
and Muninn, thought and memory.
And so I see these
two ravens on a tree.
And I'm like, wow,
that's really cool.
And all of a sudden, they
start screaming, start yelling.
They get up, and
they start flying.
And they're yelling
and screaming.
And I'm like, what are you all
about, only to suddenly see
a rockslide coming down.
And I'm like, oh, you're
just giving the heads up.
It's like they knew beforehand
that the rockslide was
going to happen.
And they were giving
us a warning, hey,
heads up, be aware,
rocks are coming down.
And I'm like, OK, great.
Now I get it.
Also, the law is to
listen to the birds,
listen to the chatter
and the speaking
of the language of
the birds because they
will foretell events coming.
And I'm like, see, this
stuff isn't just metaphor.
This is actual reality that
we like to just blow off
as mysticism or mythology.
Mm-um.
It's very rare.
>>REGINA: That is so cool.
You also were hearing
the local gods speaking.
OK, what's that all about?
First of all, how
do they're gods?
How did you hear them speak?
What did they have to say?
Were they talking to
you or to each other?
Were you eavesdropping?
Tell us about it.
>>OLSEN: That was one of
the most heart opening
experiences I had there.
As part of the
Viking village, there
is a sacred area where
they have god poles.
They have poles in the
ground with the faces
of the gods on it.
There's an altar space there.
And we did do an old Norse
ritual called the Blot, where
we raise a horn to
the gods, and we
sprinkle meat on the god poles.
And we basically leave
an offering to the gods.
And that went as
normal as expected.
A little while later, when
everything quieted down,
everything was quiet and calm,
I went back to the poles.
And I just had a
little connection.
I just reached out, just said,
hey, thank you, this is great.
And then I heard them.
I heard them speaking.
And this time, it was a lot like
the gestalt like we look for.
We're hoping the guides
to have that good language
communication.
And it was actual talking.
It was like I was speaking
with Odin, at first, Odin.
Odin at first.
And I'm like, wait a minute,
I can hear them talk.
I'm hearing them speak.
And we're having this
conversation back and forth,
where it felt like a lot of
gratitude for the teachings
I'm bringing forward
about runes and the work
that I'm doing about continuing
bringing this message forward.
And other gods would speak up.
And this is where I got a
different point of view of Loki
because there was a
pole there for Loki.
>>REGINA: Loki is often
thought of somewhat negatively.
>>OLSEN: Exactly.
>>REGINA: So let's talk
about Loki for a moment
and what you discovered there.
>>OLSEN: And Loki was there
talking a little bit too.
And of course, you're right.
Loki is depicted as the Norse
devil, which he's really not--
he's the trickster spirit--
really not.
But because everything that Loki
does in the lore, everything,
comes out beneficial for
everybody at the end.
And so when I'm talking with
Odin, I'm talking with Loki.
I realized Loki is the
lord of the shadows.
Loki is the shadow
worker of the gods.
Any of that crud and crap
that needs to be brought up
to the surface, any
of that crud and crap
that needs to be dealt with,
any of those old wounds that
are being projected
out with toxicity, Loki
is the one that brings
that to light, that
brings that to the surface.
So of course, people
don't want to see that.
They don't want to see the
negatives about themselves
or the pain deep within.
But Loki stirs that
up so you see it.
So you can heal it.
I went, thank you, Loki.
I have a much deeper respect.
>>REGINA: That
makes total sense.
Because first of all, we're not
going to walk into a dark room
intentionally.
That's not what humans do.
Generally speaking, when
they do that in the films,
it's all right, I'm out of here.
Who would create
a scene like that?
No one walks into a dark
room in a haunted house.
But the fact is, we don't
voluntarily walk into challenge
and darkness.
So wouldn't we need,
essentially, a trickster
to somehow give us--
again, whether it's a
little desire a little nudge
or an overactive curiosity into
something so that it helps us,
again, engage with the
things we must engage with
but are trying to avoid.
So are you saying that's
essentially what Loki does?
>>OLSEN: That's
exactly what he does.
He provokes us.
And he pokes us and prods
us until we wake up.
>>REGINA: And you could say
the devil, the whole concept
of every entity that is
termed as Satan or the devil,
is essentially doing
the same thing,
tempting us, quote "come
hither" into exploring
what we have refused
to explore perhaps,
or what we need to explore
for our own expansion, growth,
learning.
>>OLSEN: Exactly.
And it was from
this experience not
only did I learn
Loki better, but I
got to hear the
voices of the gods
again in a much stronger
and a much better way.
And I can proudly say that
even coming back to the States
and still doing this work,
I can still hear them.
We still talk.
I've got images.
I've got statues of the
gods on my altar spaces.
And there are times where I just
close everything down, clear
my mind, and they're there.
And they're talking.
And when I sit with
clients, they're talking.
>>REGINA: This is so neat.
You had to go there, though, to
really bring in your connection
with them, that it
had to be on that land
to strengthen that so you
could bring it back with you
for the rest of this life.
I mean, you must have thought,
I've done this before.
>>OLSEN: Yeah.
>>REGINA: You obviously have
been on that land from that--
Kaedrich Olsen,
OK, from that land,
and you were just reconnecting
with these beings.
Did you have any sense of why
it was now and not before?
Was there something in
you that was just now
ready to take on these
particular guides/gods?
>>OLSEN: There's
something I'm starting
to understand from my
whispers that I'm calling,
the starseed wound.
Higher level beings are
coming to this planet
without a sense of linear time.
Linear time is a
construct of our brain.
Linear time doesn't exist.
But let's say,
there's sixth density,
seventh density, whatever
kind of density beings.
They cannot resonate
with our third dimension,
third density existence here.
But right now in this
time point of humanity,
we are crossing that threshold,
where we're leaving war behind,
we're leaving this
destructive era behind.
We're evolving to a more of 5D
state of being out of this 3D.
And so that's why we're seeing
starseeds awakening right now.
But in order to down-res from
their seventh density state,
they had to come back in
past, humanity's past, where
times were brutal.
I mean, people like to
say Vikings were awful,
terrible people.
Well, sure.
But so is everybody
else in the world.
>>REGINA: Hollywood makes
them look quite sexy, though.
I'm sorry.
Yeah.
>>OLSEN: But everybody was too.
So the starseed wound is
the seventh-density beings
come into a time that was
very brutal, very awful,
to be brutal and awful
to get that trauma
as their perpetuator
of some of this stuff
or to have it happen to them
so that they can down-res
from seventh density
to third density,
so that here in
our time period, we
learn how to heal that starseed
wound for all of humanity.
Because we're all part of
the collective unconscious,
so we learn how to heal those
wounds from the medieval period
and through the
pre-medieval period,
so that today in the 3D,
when we're moving 3D to 5D,
we can show humanity
how to do that,
how we do that healing
process because we're
healing ourselves.
And we got great.
This is how you
move through that.
>>REGINA: So let me ask
you another question here.
Well, not like I
wasn't going to,
but something I'm
going tangential a bit.
Do these gods ever speak of
entities that have been here
to mess with us, to
restrict us to an extent
that most of this community
has heard about many times
and other channeled beings are
now openly talking about them,
yeah, you've had
some restrictions.
And it's time for you to blast
your light through all of that.
And one of them said
recently that you
are coming to the end of war.
However, those very
same forces that
have kept people narcotized, and
even more so now through media
and such, are seeing to it
that we're being blasted
with every type of image.
Even the Vikings, I mean, it's
on what, Netflix or Prime Video
or something, with
the bloody past,
there's always a heroic
figure, but the brutality
of being human, which
these other beings
said isn't even our nature.
So do these beings
talk about other forces
that they're working
with alongside us?
>>OLSEN: Yes.
They're a form of giant
called the Thursar.
Thurs is a singular.
Thursar is plural.
They have names like
Hati, which is the hater.
It's all about hatred.
It's all about destruction.
And in a sense, these
are what the Gnostics
would call archons.
They're the same
kind of entities.
And the way that
they work is, they
get people to fight over really
silly, nonsensical things,
like words they call each other.
Yeah.
And so maybe, these
people are conflict.
They're fighting each other.
They're warring
against each other.
And then we'll bring
in other people
from other countries
as peacekeepers
or whatnot to quell
that violence.
Well, that Thurs is going,
cool, let's bring more violence,
let's feed me.
And so they're just creating
the cycle of violence
over and over.
And here's an interesting
thing to note.
These beings are called
Thurs, T-H-U-R-S.
And who is the main
combatant against the Thurs?
Thor.
>>REGINA: Thor, yep.
>>OLSEN: They're the same words.
And if we go to runicly,
the TH is that aggressive,
that Thursar is an
aggressive character.
Raido is that manifestation,
that movement of it.
But Urus for Thurs is the "oo"
sound, making them primal,
making them very banal,
making them very destructive.
But Thor has os, which is a
rune of wisdom and knowledge
and understanding.
So Thor is the homogeneous,
violent, aggressive energy
but tempered with wisdom and
the higher state of being
to destroy the Thursar.
However, in the
Ragnarok, Ragnarok
is basically telling
of the dark night
of the soul of the
individual and the dark night
soul of humanity in general,
not the end of the world.
And in this tale, we find
the old gods, the old war
gods, Odin, Thor, Tyr, all of
the old war gods are killed.
Their war--
>>REGINA: Yes, it's over.
>>OLSEN: The chaotic forces
are destroyed at the same time.
>>REGINA: Which is our future.
>>OLSEN: Right.
>>REGINA: Which is
humanity's future.
>>OLSEN: And Balder, the
most beloved of all the gods,
was killed by Loki through the
work of Loki, kept in hell,
which the old Norse concept
of hell is not evil,
it's just a safe place to be.
And when Ragnarok is over,
Balder comes from hell
and takes over.
And as the high
God, he's the most
beloved, caring,
pacifistic kind of deity.
So it's showing that we're
moving from a warlike state,
shifting to a higher
state of being,
where we move beyond the
war, beyond the chaos,
beyond the destruction.
It's even in Norse
lore that we move
in that higher state of being.
>>REGINA: I love it.
OK.
Now, let's talk
about something else.
Since we're talking
about beings,
a lot of people watching
this think, yeah,
but they've watched a
lot of shows on ufology.
And they're like, what about
the Nordic beings, the ones who
are the tall blondes
that are considered
to have Nordic features, who
come to Earth, who are part
of us, who perhaps, were part
of them, genetically engineered
in certain parts of the world
to have those features as well?
Do ETs, so to speak,
factor into this,
to the lore and tradition?
>>OLSEN: It's very likely.
Now, I know when we
look at Valiant Thor,
interesting that he
has that same name.
>>REGINA: Valiant Thor.
>>OLSEN: He comes to--
>>REGINA: The story of
"Stranger at the Pentagon."
>>OLSEN: Exactly.
Thank you.
And we look at some
of the Pleiadians.
And even Swaruu says
one of the cultures,
one of the planets
in the Pleiades
is the old Norse people.
So there's a big maybe there.
And if we look at
old Norse lore,
we find that the Aesir,
the high gods of the Norse,
are the same as the Asuras
from the Hindu tradition,
the gods that were kicked
out and travel the world.
And some of the stories of Odin
teaching all over the world
match what some of
the Asuras taught.
And so it's very
interesting in that way.
And if we look deeper
into Norse folklore,
we find multiple
tales of somebody
out at night finding what they
would call a fairy mound raised
up on three pillars.
And it could be
the hill raised up.
But they're definitely
on three pillars.
There is a bright, glowing
light underneath there.
And there's some sort
of a party with elves
or other otherworldly beings.
And when they go
into that mound, when
they go into that
light, to them,
they're only there
for the night.
>>REGINA: Interesting.
>>OLSEN: But when they
leave in the next morning,
they go back to their village,
and people are freaked out.
They're like, you've
been gone for 20 years.
You've been gone for 50 years.
So there's a time distortion.
>>REGINA: So it sounds
like that does overlay
with interaction with others.
>>OLSEN: Exactly.
So these may be
telling us that could
be some form of UFO landing
and otherworldly beings
interacting with them.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
Interesting.
OK.
So let's talk about--
let's go to the household,
OK, in the old ways, the
old Norse ways, and how
the human being every
day was interacting
with the different
elementals and such,
and what the different
elementals were charged with.
>>OLSEN: Absolutely.
These beings were a normal
part of everyday life.
When you had a household, you
definitely kept a little altar
with, maybe, some
milk or some honey
or some sweets and shiny things
for the household spirits.
Because if you had
respect for them,
they shared that
respect back to you.
They would help you
do the housework.
They'd help keep
the places clean.
>>REGINA: Nice.
>>OLSEN: And they
would test you.
They'd put little debris on
your doorstep, little twigs
or little things on the doorstep
to see if you cleaned it away.
Because they like a
nice, clean, tidy home.
They like you to be on
task with everything.
And if you ever fell off of
not keeping up that altar,
if you let things get dirty--
>>REGINA: They'd pile on more...
>>OLSEN: --mess.
Oh, yeah.
They would mess with it so bad.
And even if you did
something outside,
maybe you had nature spirits
living around outside,
there was a boulder in a place
that you didn't like a boulder,
so you got up and you moved
that boulder, now things
are going haywire in the house.
So you got to do a
little mea culpa.
You got to put little
altar space outside.
You got to find out what's going
on, consult with a local seer
or say, hey, why are
they messing with me?
What's happening here?
>>REGINA: Well, you had that
experience when you were
there too at the stave church?
>>OLSEN: Yeah.
The stave church
was very interesting
because those were
land spirits there.
Now when we went up
to the stave church,
the stave churches are
all over Scandinavia.
And what they are, they're
churches built out of wood.
From what I understand, there's
no metal in their construction.
It's just wood.
They're very elaborate.
They're very decorative.
They're neat to look at.
>>REGINA: What era were these--
over what period of time
were these?
>>OLSEN: Oh, I would say,
1000s, 1100s, 1300s definitely
as Christianity
started coming in.
Because Iceland was the last
place to officially convert
and that was in the year 1000.
There was old Uppsala in Sweden,
which tales were around 1300.
They finally switched over.
But Christianity kept coming in.
And what they would do is,
there would be a place where
there was a pagan holy site.
And best we know, Indigenous
cultures all over the world
know where ley lines are.
They know where sacred
energy sites are.
Old Norse were the same way.
>>REGINA: They used their
own beans as the wise ones
as a tuning fork.
>>OLSEN: Exactly.
So they built their temples.
There they put their
god poles there.
They put their statues, they
held their ceremonies there.
And as the way of every
culture on this planet when
it's a new culture
coming in, they
destroy the old culture, even
demonize the old culture.
And that's what happened.
These stave churches were
built on the locations
of old pagan holy sites.
And so when I went to go
visit this stave church,
I'm feeling out the
land, just to be open.
I want to see what's going on.
And I was really,
really surprised
to feel so much anger.
There was anger
all over the place,
not in the churchyard, not
where the graveyard was.
Mind you, I did not
go inside the church.
I was a little too
freaked out by the energy.
But I stayed out there.
And when I went
outside the churchyard,
I'm picking up the anger
going, all right, who's angry,
what's going on.
And I'm feeling nature
spirits all over the place,
the hulduf칩lk,
the hidden people.
And I'm like, OK,
guys, what's going on?
And they're showing
me clairvoyant images
that this church is like a thorn
stuck in a channel of energy.
There's energy that needs
to be flowing through.
And this church
was like a thorn.
And they're almost
pleading me, begging me.
It's like, great, if you're
aware of this, can you
pull it out, can you
get this out of there?
And I'm like, no,
I can't do that.
I'm sorry.
And there's just so much
anger that this is blocking,
that energy blocking that flow.
And I'm like, OK, what
else is going on here?
So I reached out even more.
And I felt the pull
over towards some trees,
a little grove, off in the
distance away from the church.
And I'm like, what's
going on there?
I got as close as I could
because there's a fence,
and I don't want to cross
property lines of anybody's
private property.
But I stopped at the
fence, and I reached out.
And I'm like, oh, there's
a bunch of stuff going on.
There's a bunch of energy.
I'm like, there they are.
And I reached out even more.
Beyond the anger,
there was deep sadness.
>>REGINA: Because their
land had been compromised.
>>OLSEN: Yeah.
And I'm like, where is
this sadness coming from?
It was people.
And I'm like, why
are you people here?
What's going on?
They're stuck.
These are what old
Norse would call
the aptrgangr, the
after-walkers, the after-goers,
what we would call lost souls or
people stuck in between worlds.
And as I'm communicating
with them as best as I can,
they're conveying to me
images and feelings of horror,
of devastation, of trauma, of
killings and terror going on.
And I'm like, holy crap.
And I'm like, OK, land
spirits, what's going on?
I'm like, we're
protecting these people
because they don't
know where to go.
They don't know what to do.
We're protecting,
we're helping them.
And can you get this
thing out of here?
>>REGINA: These are souls
that have been swept up
in the brutality of those ages.
>>OLSEN: Exactly.
And so it's a weird experience.
I wasn't sure what to
expect when I went there.
But it was certainly not that.
And it was eye-opening
and revelatory.
And I'm like, OK, there's
some weird history here
that's embedded in
the energy of the land
and in the memory of the spirits
and the land spirits there.
>>REGINA: Well, that
takes us to another area.
And that is that
the old Norse also
had a very sophisticated
understanding of the underworld
after death, right?
>>OLSEN: Yes.
>>REGINA: I mean, is it like
the Egyptian "Book of the Dead"
or something along that line?
>>OLSEN: Kind of.
>>REGINA: OK.
>>OLSEN: You see
Hel, her name, Hel,
H-E-L is a daughter of Loki.
And the word "hel" in Old
Norse is not punishment.
It's not torment.
It is the root word for
health, wholeness, well-being.
So when you wish somebody
like, hel, Regina,
I'm wishing you health,
holiness, and well-being.
>>REGINA: Go to hell.
Thank you.
I will.
>>OLSEN: And so the goddess
Hel and her realm Hel,
some people say Helheim,
is that realm of healing,
is the realm of
health and well-being.
And in the lore, it tells
us that Odin gave Hel
charge of the nine
worlds of the afterlife,
not just the nine
worlds of existence,
that's for other things.
But she has nine realms
of the other world.
And if we look at
the lore, no matter
if you a warrior thinking
you're going to Valhalla,
or if you are a beloved
people or thinking that
you deserve an
afterlife of torment,
because there's a
place for that too,
that you cross through Helheim.
You go over the Gjallarbru,
the resounding bridge.
You judge yourself of what
you're going through there.
And a lot of what these tales
are, if we really dig into it,
and we put our
mystical mindset on,
we realize that
hell is about losing
who you thought you were,
sloughing off all of the crap
that you think you
need to hold onto,
your burdens of your daily
life, all of the trauma,
all of the pain, all of the
expectations of yourself,
the shadow work stuff.
You let that stuff all go.
And then you wake
up in the afterlife
where you always were.
If you were that noble warrior,
you were always in Valhalla.
If you were a beloved family,
and you had a beloved family,
you were in Fensalir.
If you are a common warrior,
a daily warrior thing,
you're in F칩lkvangr.
You're there all the time.
It's just Hel is about clearing
away the thing that you're not.
>>REGINA: Well,
that makes sense.
And going back to the notion
of Loki, the trickster,
to invite us in to
something we need to engage,
but maybe, have been avoiding.
So then, it seems
to me that hell
would be a version is, if
you refuse that journey
and continue to stay stuck
and not advance and grow
beyond what you're being and
what you're engaging with,
what you're being invited
to do, that stuckness
is a type of hell, so to speak.
But when you break
through, it leads
to good health on all
levels, emotionally,
mentally, physically,
>>OLSEN: Which brings us
to an interesting notion
that is in the lore.
There's something
called a straw death.
A person who lives to old
age, and they die of disease
is called a straw death.
And they go to hell, whereas the
warriors go to Valhalla, right?
Well, the big difference
is, is maybe somebody
who died a straw death might
be clinging on to life.
They might be full of regrets,
going, I don't want to go,
I'm not ready to
go, I can't be here.
So they're going to have
a harder time making
that transition, which is
why I love death doulas
and psychopomps
because they help
people make that transition.
But a warrior going
into battle has already
made peace with themselves,
knowing this could be it,
this could be my final call.
I'm ready to go.
>>REGINA: Fascinating
perspective on it.
OK.
So now are you working with
the layers of the beings?
I have them written down here.
I can't pronounce their names.
OK?
But just quickly
going through them,
are you working with
these, and as you said,
the other gods that
you reconnected
with when you're working
with your clients
in terms of shadow work?
Are you working with them?
>>OLSEN: Yes, somewhat.
>>REGINA: So let's talk
about, here we have--
how do you say it-- draugr.
>>OLSEN: Draugr.
>>REGINA: Draugr, who is more
malevolent and destructive,
where is he coming into play?
>>OLSEN: Right.
These are--
>>REGINA: I say, he, of course.
>>OLSEN: Actually,
in the stories
are all men, that's draugrs.
They are basically the restless
soul, the restless body.
You can think of them almost
like a lich or a zombie
rising from the grave, causing
calamity, destroying things,
killing people.
But it's also like a
poltergeist, the noisy spirit
that comes into your
house, throw things around,
or the upset, angry
spirit that needs
to be quelled and dealt with.
And so the lore is often
about the medieval remedies.
Chop off the head or you
bring peace to the body,
so that it stops,
that kind of thing.
But there's a lot of
tales about the draugr.
But what's similar but
different to the draugr,
something called the haugbui.
And a haugbui is the
same kind of thing.
It's a reanimated spirit, but
they never leave the gravesite.
These are like kings or
nobles or very rich people,
very well-respected people that
were buried in a mound, a haug.
And people will go
to their burial site.
And they'll see this
person in their mound,
feasting and drinking
and having a good time.
Or they sleep on the mound.
And they have a conversation
with a person in the mound.
See?
It's like a draugr, but
it never leaves the mound.
But you can go there
and consult with them.
You can talk with
them and say, hey,
what's an answer to this one.
There's a very popular
story about a shepherd
that wanted to be a poet.
And he slept on the
mound of a poet.
And that poet taught him
some secrets overnight.
And he became a
world-famous poet.
Similar to these old
stories in Americana
about going to the
crossroads, but there's
no repercussions, just a
good life of getting work.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
OK.
So the next one is called, you
said, haug earlier, haugbui?
>>OLSEN: Haugbui.
Haugbui.
>>REGINA: Haugbui.
And so tell us about--
these are more beneficial?
These are beings
that you can now--
do you work with them because
you can consult with them?
>>OLSEN: We can today.
In America, especially, we
would have to go to a gravesite,
to graveyard.
And as you know, there
are still spirits there.
They're sometimes
lingering there.
And so you could sit down.
And I will do this, sit
down with a picnic basket
and just hang out and
let yourself tune in.
Put up your protections,
put up your barriers,
and then just tune
in, and say, hey,
who has something that
has to talk about.
What's going on here?
And then you can have a
conversation with the spirits
in the graveyard.
It's the same thing about
talking with a haugbui.
It's just like, hey, what's
going on, what can we learn.
>>REGINA: And you
have another one here.
It's called aptrgangr or so.
But this one is very-- sounds to
me very similar to the draugr.
>>OLSEN: Sort of, yeah.
An aptrgangr basically
means an after-walker, yeah,
the same root, gangr, as when
we see doppelganger, same kind
of thing.
But these, we can
think of as lost souls.
These may be people who died
in a traumatic incident.
If you go to--
>>REGINA: Like the ones
over at the stave church.
>>OLSEN: Yes.
>>REGINA: And the land near it.
Those would be aptrgangr.
Or if we hear paranormal
tales, like maybe,
there was a big shootout or a
big killing in a certain area.
>>REGINA: 9/11?
>>OLSEN: 911.
Or even here in Colorado, we
have the Big Thompson Flood.
And if you drive through that
highway going through the Big
Thompson Canyon, there are lots
of aptrgangr there going, hey,
what am I doing, what am I,
what's going on, why am I lost.
So they're not malevolent.
They're not benevolent.
>>REGINA: Just lost.
>>OLSEN: They're just lost
and maybe need some guidance.
That's an aptrgangr.
>>REGINA: Maybe need
a little recognition.
>>OLSEN: Yes.
>>REGINA: Then we have these
others, the [NON-ENGLISH]
>>OLSEN: Yep.
>>REGINA: Please, say it for me.
>>OLSEN: [NON-ENGLISH]
>>REGINA: Oh, I
was almost there.
>>OLSEN: Yes.
And it literally means
those you wake up.
Up, like up,
[NON-ENGLISH] waking.
And these are the ones
that you call in a seance.
These are the ones that you
literally set the ritual.
You set the setting.
And you say, hey, ancestors,
hey, teachers, hey,
my best friend, hey, mom
and dad, hey, grandma,
come and hang out.
Let's talk.
Let's have dinner.
Let's watch TV together.
Those are the [NON-ENGLISH]
because you woke them up.
>>REGINA: Yes.
And called them in.
And the disir?
>>OLSEN: Yeah.
Disir is the feminine, and
치lfar are the masculine.
And what we can
think of the disir
as our ascended ancestors.
They are the matrilineal women,
the matriarchs of the family.
There we go.
They're the matriarchs of
the family, the great aunts,
the grandmas that not
only did they die,
but when they went
to the other side,
they were aware of
their crossing over.
They were aware of
their spiritual work.
They moved to an
ascended state of being.
And they hang out with a
family to give guidance,
to give some direction,
give some clarity,
give butt kickings.
Because they're not always
puppy dogs and rainbows.
They're like, what are
you doing, cut it out.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
And so now here you are.
We have a few minutes left.
And the work you do is
a lot of shadow work.
And it seems that most
of it is with men.
>>OLSEN: Oh, actually,
most of it's--
believe it or not, it's a
good mix of all of them.
>>REGINA: It is now.
>>OLSEN: Yeah.
>>REGINA: OK.
It seems a few years
ago, you started out,
you were working with
men's groups and such.
So let's talk about the shadow
work and the incorporation
of the Norse pantheon of beings
that you're deeply connected
with and how that feeds into
your work and helps others.
>>OLSEN: Absolutely.
The reason why we're
doing shadow work
is because we do live in a
paranormal supernatural world.
It is a part of that.
But most of the people
around here in our culture
grew up going to
churches or seeing
the TV shows and
the movies that give
a scary, spooky, terrifying
example of the paranormal.
But they're getting
some connection.
They're getting this awareness.
They're getting whispers.
They're getting
clairvoyant images.
They're hearing things or keys
are getting lost in the house.
And now they're going--
>>REGINA: Earrings being stolen.
>>OLSEN: Earrings being stolen.
And there's a part of
them inside going, OK,
this isn't something evil.
This isn't bad.
But yet, they're still scared.
They're still afraid of it.
They're still afraid
of reaching out
because they're
hearing those stories
that, no, it's not
grandma in your house.
It's a demon trying to
lure your soul into hell.
Well, no, it really is grandma.
>>REGINA: Well, there are a lot
of negative stories out there
that would propel
that kind of fear.
So you're basically there to--
>>OLSEN: To help set
the story straight,
to say, yes, that
really is grandma.
Here's how you connect.
And so we do our shadow work
to go into those feelings,
to go into those
beliefs, and let
them have a say, to let
them know that there's
a purpose that that
shadow really was there
to protect them, really was
there to help them in some way.
And so we reintegrate the
lesson of that shadow.
Let go of the fear.
Let go of the negativity.
Reintegrate that energy.
So they can discover
their skills,
their talents, their gifts
that they naturally had.
Like when they were a child, and
that wasn't an imaginary friend
they were talking to.
It was one of their guides.
But mom and dad and
the church said, no,
that's a demon tempting you.
But yet, that guide's
still saying, hey,
I got something for you to do.
You're going to love this.
And they're like, but, but, but,
but but I was told that was--
so we work through
that shadow of that.
And then they go, oh,
that was my best friend.
>>REGINA: Yeah, my best friend.
I freaked him out.
I was afraid of him.
>>OLSEN: And they
reconnect and like, wow,
life is so much better.
I'm connecting now.
I'm seeing.
I'm here.
And now my life has purpose.
And what's amazing is some of
these shadows hold people back.
They lock them in.
They have jobs or
relationships that
are just toxic and destructive.
They work through these shadows.
They work through these beliefs.
And then the job
opportunity comes in.
And they love the job.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
KAEDRICH: That person that
was toxic in their life
is like, OK, I've
had enough of you.
I'm out of here.
Of course, they're sad.
They're heartbroken.
But then I just met
this other person.
>>REGINA: Everything, that's
the whole, one door closes,
a window opens.
>>OLSEN: .
Right.
And they're starting
to be authentic.
They're starting to
live their orlog.
They came here to
live because they're
clearing those shadows out.
They're now able to
listen to guidance.
And they're getting the
teachers and the disir
and the 치lfar in their life.
And they're able to
listen and hear them.
And they get the
guidance for themselves.
They're like, wow, I
can be a part of this?
Really, this stuff is
real, and I can do this?
And it makes my life better.
>>REGINA: That's so cool.
>>OLSEN: Yeah, it does.
>>REGINA: And you brought
up kids a little moment ago
when you were a little kid.
And this is another
thing, to start
seeing our children in
a little different way
and giving them much more
latitude of exploration
and when they tell us
these magical things,
not to poo poo it, but to take
them seriously so that they can
keep their own dreams alive.
We know what we love
when we're little kids.
We know what we love to do and
what makes time stand still.
But slowly but surely,
it's beaten out of us.
So we only have a minute.
One quick thing.
What is the most
direct thing you
would say a person can do to
open themselves out, quiet
themselves, and open
themselves to hear the whisper?
>>OLSEN: To be aware
of your thoughts,
to be aware of your
feelings, to be
aware of how your body feels,
just to be aware of it,
just have that awareness
of your thoughts.
And the more thoughts you
have racing, the better.
And then you move to
this neutral space,
where you're aware
of your thoughts,
you're aware of your feelings,
you're aware of your emotions,
but you're not a part of them.
You're in this silent space,
separate from all those things,
but you're aware.
And that's where you suddenly
pick up other little things
going on.
And you're like, oh,
that's not coming from me.
That's not part of the din of
my thoughts or my emotions.
This is something different.
And the more you pay attention
to those little subtle
whispers, those little subtle
nudges, the clearer they get.
I'm not going to say louder,
but the clearer they get,
and the easier it is
to tune in to them
and to tune out from the din
of your regular noisy mind.
>>REGINA: Hear, hear.
Thank you for that.
Kaedrich, the time has flown.
It's always so-- it's fun.
It's always an adventure
and fascinating.
And thanks for sharing all the
experiences on your last trip.
This is wonderful.
And I know you'll be
going again, right?
>>OLSEN: Oh, absolutely.
The week and the Vikings
stuff is amazing.
It's a beautiful place there.
>>REGINA: Wonderful.
Thank you so much, Kaedrich.
To find out more
about Kaedrich's work,
you can watch my previous
interviews with him here
on Gaia or go to his website at
kaedrich.com, K-A-E-D-R-I-C-H.
Until next time, thank you
for joining us here on "Open
Minds."
[THEME MUSIC]